Add draft documentation with MD format (#20)
pypsa-meets-earth/pypsa-earth-status: doc/home/introduction.md

# Introduction

## What is PyPSA-Earth-Status?

**PyPSA-Earth-Status** is an open-source Python package designed to **validate PyPSA energy system models against real-world data anywhere on Earth**.

> Energy system models are increasingly used to inform research, policy, and investment decisions. However, ensuring that a model represents today’s energy system remains a persistent challenge. PyPSA-Earth-Status addresses this gap by providing **automated, transparent, and reproducible validation workflows** for energy models including PyPSA networks and beyond.

Reviewer: I fear `a persistent challenge` can be misinterpreted in a way that energy systems models have not much to do with the reality in general. I think it could make sense to clarify a bit. Adding a suggestion on that:

```suggestion
Energy system models are increasingly used to inform research, policy, and investment decisions. However, ensuring that a model represents today’s energy system requires a significant work. 

In PyPSA-Earth, a considerable experience has been accumulated on the ways to build robust and meaningful validation procedures for energy system models. You can check available examples in [ji-gis-validation](https://github.com/open-energy-transition/ji-gis-validation) or [efuels-supply-potentials](https://github.com/open-energy-transition/efuels-supply-potentials) modelling projects.  However, development of a validation procedure for every new modelling case still requires additional manual adjustments leading to duplicated efforts.

PyPSA-Earth-Status addresses this gap by providing **automated, transparent, and reproducible validation workflows** for energy models including PyPSA networks and beyond.
```
